{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red46\green116\blue181;\red5\green99\blue193;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c18039\c45490\c70980;\csgenericrgb\c1961\c38824\c75686;}
{\info
{\author Un-named}}\paperw11905\paperh16837\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20440\viewh17140\viewkind1\viewscale190
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 IITA Solution Template
\f1\b0\fs56 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\fs20 \cf0 Use this template to document agricultural solutions. The parser will automatically extract data from the sections below and import it into the database.
\f1\i0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf2 CORE INFORMATION
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs20 \cf0 Title: 
\f1\b0 Climate Smart Package: Banana and Plantains\

\f0\b Countries: 
\f1\b0 Nigeria, Ghana, Cameroon, Kenya, Uganda\

\f0\b Challenges: 
\f1\b0 banana, plantains\

\f0\b Key Agroecology: 
\f1\b0 tropic \'96 warm subhumid, tropic \'96 warm humid, subtropical \'96 warm subhumid, subtropical \'96 warm humid
\f0\b \
Climate Potential: 
\f1\b0 7\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf2 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs20 \cf0 Executive Summary: 
\f1\b0 Bananas and plantains\'a0are staple crops for household consumption and income for smallholder farmers in the humid and sub-humid tropical climate zones across Africa. Plantains make up\'a0\cf3 \ul \ulc3 25%\cf0 \ulnone \'a0of critical dietary carbohydrates for populations across West and Central Africa, amounting to about 70 million people. Bananas and plantains are highly sought after exports in global trade, especially in\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://furtherafrica.com/2022/03/11/the-banana-economy-and-how-it-can-transform-africa/%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 European markets (}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://furtherafrica.com/2022/03/11/the-banana-economy-and-how-it-can-transform-africa/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 https://furtherafrica.com/2022/03/11/the-banana-economy-and-how-it-can-transform-africa/}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://furtherafrica.com/2022/03/11/the-banana-economy-and-how-it-can-transform-africa/%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 ),}}\'a0representing a key source of income generation for both individual smallholder farmers and national GDP growth. However, harmful effects of climate change threaten continued economic growth from plantain and banana cultivation, have the potential to deteriorate biodiversity in the tropics, and threaten food security for millions of Africans. The {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.iita.org/research"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA)}} has over 50 years of expertise in engineering climate-smart banana technologies and agronomy practices, with grassroots relationships to farmers, ensuring a sustainable solution for the humid and sub-humid tropical zones.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf2 PROBLEM DEFINITION
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs20 \cf0 Problem Title: 
\f1\b0 Soil Degradation, Pests, and Diseases\

\f0\b Problem Bullets:
\f1\b0 \
\'95 Higher temperatures and drought conditions
\f0\b \'a0are correlated with\'a0\cf3 \ul \ulc3 significantly lower\cf0 \ulnone \'a0({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.icpac.net/media/documents/Banana_Yields__Climate_Change.pdf"}}{\fldrslt https://www.icpac.net/media/documents/Banana_Yields__Climate_Change.pdf}}) banana yields.
\f1\b0 \
\'95 The changing climate is increasing harmful diseases in banana and plantain plants, including\'a0
\f0\b black sigatoka and fusarium wilt disease.
\f1\b0  \
\'95 Erratic and unpredictable rainfalls deteriorate the soil, with flooding leading to\'a0
\f0\b nutrient leaching
\f1\b0 \'a0and long droughts leading to\'a0
\f0\b low soil moisture.
\f1\b0 \
\'95 Pests like the\'a0
\f0\b banana weevil and nematodes
\f1\b0 \'a0are additionally threatening livelihoods and food security across the tropics by declining banana and plantain crop yields.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf2 SOLUTION DESCRIPTION
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs20 \cf0 Solution Title: 
\f1\b0 IITA\'92s Climate Smart Package\

\f0\b Solution Bullets:
\f1\b0 \
\'95 
\f0\b Advanced Seed Technologies
\f1\b0 . Seed varieties that are resistant to disease and drought: The {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://e-catalogs.taat-africa.org/gov/technologies?search=&commodities%255B%255D=Banana%252FPlantain&sort_order=0%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Kabana 6H/NARITA 7 hybrid}}\cf3 \ul \ulc3  ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://e-catalogs.taat-africa.org/com/technologies/kabana-6hnarita7-hybrid-high-yielding-and-disease-tolerant-banana"}}{\fldrslt https://e-catalogs.taat-africa.org/com/technologies/kabana-6hnarita7-hybrid-high-yielding-and-disease-tolerant-banana}})\cf0 \ulnone \'a0seed and NARITA 17. Leveraging in-vitro banana tissue culture propagation.\
\'95 
\f0\b Agronomic Innovations. 
\f1\b0 Evidence-based intercropping technologies: intercropping banana and plantain plants with cassava, legumes, yams, and coffee increases yield and restores soil health.\
\'95 
\f0\b Digital Tools for Implementation and Management. 
\f1\b0 Use the BXW App to monitor Banana Wilt Disease. Available on the Google Play store. Establish community-based seed multiplication systems for sustainable access\
\'95 
\f0\b Our Team of Experts. 
\f1\b0 Experts like Rony Sweenen, who has been researching bananas in Africa for 50 years, to support your implementation. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf2 RESOURCES & EVIDENCE
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs20 \cf0 Technical Guides: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://data.iita.org/dataset/5496cf2f-3f8f-41ca-b73f-68f1bfdc458e/resource/22c834c0-dbb5-44c8-9906-43e456990eb3/download/sop07-establishment-of-crosses-in-the-field-for-screening.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Establishing Banana Crosses in the Field for Screening}}
\f1\b0 \cf3 \ul \ulc3  (https://data.iita.org/dataset/5496cf2f-3f8f-41ca-b73f-68f1bfdc458e/resource/22c834c0-dbb5-44c8-9906-43e456990eb3/download/sop07-establishment-of-crosses-in-the-field-for-screening.pdf)\cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://cgspace.cgiar.org/server/api/core/bitstreams/80503f85-e35e-4611-bd5f-4988f1ddf712/content"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Standard Operating Procedure for Hybridization}} of bananas (https://cgspace.cgiar.org/server/api/core/bitstreams/80503f85-e35e-4611-bd5f-4988f1ddf712/content), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://hdl.handle.net/10568/69017"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Coffee-Banana Intercropping: Implementation guidance for policymakers and investors}} (https://hdl.handle.net/10568/69017)\

\f0\b Digital Tools: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://iita.org/digital-tools/appdetails?app=_BXW-App"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 IITA BXW app}}
\f1\b0 \cf3 \ul \ulc3  (https://iita.org/digital-tools/appdetails?app=_BXW-App)\cf0 \ulnone \

\f0\b Research Publications: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hortsci.ashspublications.org/content/50/4/621.full.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Kiwangaazi (syn 'KABANA 6H') black sigatoka, nematode and banana weevil tolerant 'Matooke' hybrid banana released in Uganda}}
\f1\b0 \cf3 \ul \ulc3  (http://hortsci.ashspublications.org/content/50/4/621.full.pdf)\cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://hdl.handle.net/10568/73225"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 The performance of East African highland bananas released in farmers' fields and the need for their further improvement}}\cf3 \ul \ulc3  (https://hdl.handle.net/10568/73225)\cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://hdl.handle.net/10568/117525"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 The role of variety attributes in the uptake of new hybrid bananas among smallholder rural farmers in central Uganda}}\cf3 \ul \ulc3  (https://hdl.handle.net/10568/117525)
\f0\b \cf0 \ulnone \
Training Materials: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://e-catalogs.taat-africa.org/documents/zauXwM0zb9LgzKTfUKlNT27Qu9NKfX8qcthiXZ8T.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Banana management practices to boost productivity}}
\f1\b0 \cf3 \ul \ulc3  (https://e-catalogs.taat-africa.org/documents/zauXwM0zb9LgzKTfUKlNT27Qu9NKfX8qcthiXZ8T.pdf)\cf0 \ulnone ;
\f0\b  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.iita.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Trainers-manual-a-training-course-for-banana-farmers-interested-in-growing-tissue-culture-bananas.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Training modules for farmers for growing tissue culture bananas}}
\f1\b0 \cf3 \ul \ulc3  (https://www.iita.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Trainers-manual-a-training-course-for-banana-farmers-interested-in-growing-tissue-culture-bananas.pdf)\cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M9SGx3HpQmE"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Banana and Plantain Farmers outreach session}}\cf3 \ul \ulc3  (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M9SGx3HpQmE)\cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D8CHetthRA0"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Practical session for growing banana and plantain}}\cf3 \ul \ulc3  (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D8CHetthRA0)\cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://data.iita.org/dataset/2bf9a6b4-9399-4422-92b0-d39f84e3f377/resource/178222cb-de58-440e-992b-b70aaa53d5c7/download/sop18-land-preparation-and-planting-banana-and-plantain.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Land Preparation and Planting Banana and Plantain}}\cf3 \ul \ulc3  (https://data.iita.org/dataset/2bf9a6b4-9399-4422-92b0-d39f84e3f377/resource/178222cb-de58-440e-992b-b70aaa53d5c7/download/sop18-land-preparation-and-planting-banana-and-plantain.pdf)\cf0 \ulnone \

\f0\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 Impact
\fs32 : \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs22 \cf0 No other Research for Development institution can pair climate-resilient seed breeding at the highest level with grassroots connection to smallholder farmers\'92 livelihoods. The expected {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://e-catalogs.taat-africa.org/com/technologies/kabana-6hnarita7-hybrid-high-yielding-and-disease-tolerant-banana"}}{\fldrslt \ul return on investment is 47.8% with yields of up to 60 tons per ha per year}}\ul  (https://e-catalogs.taat-africa.org/com/technologies/kabana-6hnarita7-hybrid-high-yielding-and-disease-tolerant-banana)
\fs32 \cf2 \ulnone .\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf2 ROLE-SPECIFIC SUMMARY SENTENCE
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs20 \cf0 Funder: 
\f1\b0 The ROI is 4:1 within 3 years, scalable across West and East Africa, and attractive for climate finance mechanisms. \

\f0\b Policymaker: 
\f1\b0 Our work supports national food security policies and agricultural transformation agendas. \

\f0\b Farmer: 
\f1\b0 Obtain higher yields with reduced disease risk, improved income stability, and better market access. \

\f0\b Student: 
\f1\b0 Explore research opportunities in banana genetics and climate adaptation in your career with us. \

\f0\b Extension: 
\f1\b0 We have comprehensive training modules on disease management and climate-smart practices. Farmer demonstration plots and training materials are available, especially for propagation. \

\f0\b Researcher: 
\f1\b0 Our known research gaps are in climate adaptation mechanisms and breeding program optimization. There are opportunities for collaborative studies on variety performance and understanding better the holistic impact of combining multiple of our interventions.\

\f0\b Development: 
\f1\b0 We welcome partnership opportunities with farmer cooperatives and other groups and scaling through existing development networks for propagating viable varieties. Integration with nutrition and value chain programming could be most viable.\

\f0\b Business: 
\f1\b0 Market opportunities exist for you in certified planting material business and banana value chain development. There\'92s a proven demand for disease-resistant varieties.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf2 \
ROLE-SPECIFIC CONTENT
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs20 \cf0 Funder: 
\f1\b0 IITA has been conducting banana research for tropical climates since 1973. IITA\'92s specific regional focus for the African continent means experts design technologies specifically for the African lowland tropical forests. Strong potential for impact investment with proven track record of farmer adoption and income improvement.\

\f0\b Policymaker: 
\f1\b0 IITA has been conducting banana research for tropical climates since 1973. IITA\'92s specific regional focus for the African continent means experts design technologies specifically for the African lowland tropical forests. IITA is committed to produce scalable, effective technologies that farmers can easily implement. Contributes to climate adaptation strategies and smallholder farmer empowerment goals.\

\f0\b Farmer: 
\f1\b0 Higher yields with reduced disease risk, improved income stability, and better market access. Simple adoption process with proven benefits for farming families.\

\f0\b Student: 
\f1\b0 Research opportunities in banana genetics and climate adaptation. Hands-on agricultural training and exposure to innovative breeding programs.\

\f0\b Extension: 
\f1\b0 Comprehensive training modules on disease management and climate-smart practices. Farmer demonstration plots and field day curricula available.\

\f0\b Researcher: 
\f1\b0 IITA has been conducting banana research for tropical climates since 1973. \

\f0\b Development: 
\f1\b0 Partnership opportunities with farmer cooperatives and scaling through existing development networks. Integration with nutrition and value chain programs.\

\f0\b Business: 
\f1\b0 Market opportunities in certified planting material business and banana value chain development. Proven demand for disease-resistant varieties.\

\f0\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 Contact Information\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Name: John Choptiany\
Title: Climate Adaptation Expert \'96 Resilience and Climate Adaptation Program Lead\
Email: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:j.choptiany@cgiar.org"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 j.choptiany@cgiar.org}}\
Phone: +254111269800\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
Title image: /Users/sledermann/Development/iita_solutions/images of solutions/Banana/title.png\
Problem image: /Users/sledermann/Development/iita_solutions/images of solutions/Banana/problem.jpg\
Solution image: /Users/sledermann/Development/iita_solutions/images of solutions/Banana/solution.jpg\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
\f1\b0\fs26 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 1. Replace the example content above with your solution data\
2. Keep the section headers and field labels (e.g., 'Title:', 'Countries:') intact\
3. Use comma-separated values for countries, challenges, and other list fields\
4. Save the document and run: npm run parse-word filename.docx\
5. Review the extracted data and confirm database import when prompted\
\
}